Notes - Day 34


Cloud Fundamentals:



Video 1:

What is Cloud Computing:

According to NIST(National Institute of Standard Technology),


Cloud Computing is a model for providing convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable resources such as networks,servers,storage, servers,application

that can be rapidly provided or released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.




Two main concepts:

1.Abstraction:

Process in which specific details are hidden to simplify or generalize something


2. Virtualization:

Process in which software manages hardware resources of physical hosts so resources can be utilized more efficiently by multiplied virtual guest systsems



Three cloud layers:

Infrastrucure cloud: Abstracts applications from servers and servers from storage


Content cloud: Abstracts data from Applications

Information cloud: Abstracts access from clients to  data



Cloud Terminologies:


On-Premise:

On the premise of the controlled IT Environment.. Alternative to cloud based



Cloud consumer:
Cloud provider:


Cloud Service:

Cloud service consumer:







Scaling:

Horizontal:

Common form of Scaling in cloud environments


Allocation IT Resources of same type- scaling out

Releasing IT Resources of same type - scaling In


Vertical:


Cloud characteristics:

- Elasticity
- On-Demand

-Provider-pooled computing resources

-Metered service usage

-Broad Network access



Elasticity:
Rapid adding or removing of resources



Metered service usage:

Subscription free plus fee as per usage


Broad Network access:

Cloud services can be accessed from any type of device

Mobile, Laptop, any other etc.



Cloud Deployment Model:

-Owned by Single Organization

-can be located on or off site




Public cloud
Private

Community
Hybrid



SaaS service model challenges:


1.Disparate location

2. Multitenancy - no customization

On Same server,everything runs?? 

3.Security - no 



PaaS: 

Heroku

Google App Engine




IaaS:

provides basic things like storage,networking,operating system etc.



CaaS:

BPaaS:

Security:

Integration:

Testing:







-------Lecture 2--------------


Transition from SOA to Cloud:


SOA is a method of software design that produces set of services that are loosely coupled and accessible from different applications in separate business domains



Like SOA, Cloud computing is also service-oriented


It is like Hyperlevel SOA..It operates same way as SOA


Major difference is cloud computing require service level agreements




SLA:

-They are like contract between end users and cloud service providers




Cloud computing Key Enabling Technologies:

-Cloud Datacenters

-Virtualization

-Cloud APIs

-Cloud Storage

-Cloud Database  : Cloud computing is not suited well with Relational Databases.
They are suited well with non-relational databases.


Bcoz scalability relability not there with this. But with non-relational scalability is there



Virtualization: Multiple OS run on same system



Common Implementation Obstacles:


1.Technical Obstacles to Adoption

2.Technical Obstacles to Growth

3. Policy and business obstacles




Technical Obstacles to Adoption:

--> Availability of a service

--->Data confidentiality and audability

-->Lock-in





The Two  Types of Business Cloud models:

Cloud enabled Business Model:




Operational Benefits:

- Lower Operational cost

-Simplified maintainence





Strategic IT Investments:

Cloud costing models:


What are capex and opex solutions?

Operational Expenditures

This is how cloud computing services are procured


Total cost of Ownership

Sir's points:

It is Pay-as-you-go service


It can be looked from different perspectives,tester perspectives etc.



Abstraction:

One command is used...for connecting to windows server, Linux server etc. like that





Virtualization:

Multiple virtual machines can be installed in one physical machine...The utilization is improved by 70% .

The cost is saved.. We have softwareized the server---> most imp point



We can create a virtual pool like that.




Scaling: Suppose, offers are there in Flipkart, Amazon... that day the server will be busy...

If example 100 servers only there na..it will be tough..so, 1000 will be good
on the other day, 100 only enough...

so if we use 1000,900 will be wasted


So,that is the reason we use scaling..

Horizontal only we use mostly..

Application servers support that horizontal scaling


Database servers does not support Ig..

Vertical scaling it does??



Elasticity: We use till we use and return back the unused one like that....

Apache Spark

S3,Hadoop,Dynamo DB





---------Lecture  2-----------


Cloud APIs: 


Cloud DataCenters:



Virtualization:



Common Implemenetation Obstacles:


Amazon used Oracle Servers even if had DynamoDB and all







Chatgpt notes:


Virtualization:

Multiple OS runs on same physical machine by abstracting hardware resources

Hypervisor runs in between OS and hardware


It divides CPU,Memory,Network resources, storage

Each VM runs its own OS independently



Cloud APIs:

APIs used to connect users with the cloud APIs








