Java Training - Notes Day 20


Session.get(Student.class,1)

This line will go to database and store the result in L1 cache..

so, that ,for next times and all, it will access from cache memeory faster rather than going to DB




Spring Boot and Spring Framework:


Inversion of Control:

Container will itself create the objects , not users



Dependency Injection:

Setter based Injection

Constructor based Injection

Method Injection

using Autowired for DI



Bean Factory:

Parent class


Configurations - XML / Java



IOC - using Collections

Bean Autowiring


Bean Containers:

Loose coupling:  Even if we add/remove beans, everything will be same




Bean is giving the instance of the class


If u change anything in pom.xml, give update project




Prgm 1 explanation:

1. property -> give setter

constructor-arg -> Constructor


property... setter injection... constructor..constructor injection


2. In xml bean file, name can be anything, value must be String only


3. Do with both setters and constructors

4. Same hashcode will be there for several instances..
they refer to the same instance

Singleton pattern

But if we want different, we want Prototype 


5. Everything we did was for Core...now we are adding for Context..

Context means for whole application, we are getting from outside


6. Add data in data.properties and put ${Person.id} like that in Person-bean.xml instead of giving directly in value

We should give context property placeholder tag in person-bean.xml ,

We should  add data.properties in resources folder


7. In data.properties, no need to give Person.langs[0] , Person.langs[1] like that...when only one array is there, don't need to give like that

It is used when multiple arrays are there like that..


8. Summary:

normal one bean

bean within bean

Collections: using list

using Arrays



9. Autowiring:

 i) By name:

   class property name must be same to id or name attribute 


2) By Type: class type, name or id may not be same and class prop

3) Constructor - Injection is constructor injection




Now, xml writing is very tedious.. 



Program 2:

Using Beans by declaring them in SpringConfiguration file


7 Annotations done:

1.@Bean
2. @Configuration

3. @Component Scan
4. @Autowired

5. @Value



Program 3:

@PostConstruct  - DB Connections, Validation..

It will invoke immediately after bean instantiation, dependency injection


@Pre destroy - for logs close, like these things

