Java Training - Notes Day 13



Http: Stateless

Not store any information

For this, in Servelets and JSP, we use

-> Cookies - 4 kb .......  webstorage

-> URL - 

-> Hiddenform

-> Session



Webstorage: Local Storage and Session Storage

Local Storage: if the session is closed, it will be gone

Session storage: it is stored always



Validation 

Authentication

Authorization




Session: Token


Application Server - WebLogic

Web Server - Apache Tomcat

Light Weighted Appln Server - Jetty



We have seen about plugins:

someother things we should see



Profile: In all sites, our appln should work..like in development environment, test environment, server etc.



For Servelet:

From maven website, type Jakarta servelet, java servelet, get versions 5.0 and 4.0 respectively...


Then, add in pom.xml dependencies

Then, right click on project, debug as:

In goals , give: clean install

Then, debug..then apply...


Then,right click, maven clean

Then, right click, maven update, click tickbox force update..


Then, that's it..


Then, the java folder is not showing.. for that, create a java folder






Servelet Api: Life Cycle methods - init, service, destroy .. along with this servelet config and servlet info will be there

Generic servlet class.. implements that

Http Servlet extends it - do get(), do post()


HelloServlet extends Http Servlet



Html Forms get and post difference:

get means the data will be passed in the URL itself

post means the data will be passed in the request body..


so, use dopost for security purposes



1 . PrintWriter prgm:

1.servelet: java will have html code


jsp: html has java code


2.



For Running the prgm:

we use 


Add tomcat dependency in pom.xml from the maven

tomcat -embed you add



2. LoginServlet prgm

1. The data is on the request url..bcoz it is get method..


3. Going to another page


1. Login -> Login servlet.. if successful, go to welcome.jsp.. else , go to error.jsp

we are using jasper dependency



JSP:

% -> declarations

<% -> sciptlet tag

Inside jsp, we can't write java code directly.. we use scriptlets

Whatever we write inside <%  %> (Scriptlet) will be exceuted on the Servlet container

Whatever we write at top on <% at jsp file, that will be run on jsp container




Servlet Config and Servlet Context:
